you
so this is indeed a general idea of the
expectation maximization or en algorithm
so in all the e/m algorithms we
introduced a hidden variable to help us
solve the problem more easily in our
case the hidden variable is a binary
variable for each occurrence of a world
and this binary variable would indicate
whether the word has been generated from
sidon sub D or thinness of P and here we
show some possible values of these
variables for you for example for the
its from background the Z value is 1 and
texts on the other hand is a is from the
topic then it's it's 0 for Z Z etc now
of course we don't observe these Z
values we just imagine there are such
associative values of Z attached to all
the world and that's why we call these
hidden variables now the idea that we
talked about before for predicting the
world distribution that has been used
when you generate the world is to
predict this the value of this hidden
variable and so the algorithm the EMR
was then would work as follows first
we'll initialize all the parameters with
random values in our case the parameters
are mainly the probability of a world
given by theta sub T so this is the
initial initial stage these initialize
variables would allow us to use Bayes
rule to take a cast of these Z values so
we'll guess these values we can say for
sure whether taxes from background or
not but we can have our test this is
given by this formula
it's called Estep and so the algorithm
would then try to use the e step to
guess these Z values after that it would
then invoke another stat step called a
meme step in this step we simply take
the Vantage of the
infer three values and then just group
that are in the same distribution like
these from background including this as
well we can then normalize the count to
estimate the probabilities or to revise
our estimate of the parameters so let me
also illustrate we can group the words
that are believed to have come from zero
sub D and that's text mining algorithm
for example and the clustering and we
are grouping them together to help us
we estimate the parameters that we're
interested in so these will help us we
estimate these parameters but notice
that before we just set these parameter
values randomly but with this gas we
will have a somewhat improved estimate
of this of course we don't know exactly
whether it's zero or one so we are not
going to really do the split in in hard
way but rather welcome to the softest
plate and this is what happened here
right so we're going to adjust the count
by the probability that would believe
this word has been generated by using
the theta sub D and you can see this
where does this come from well this has
come from here right from the estep so
the EMI would eat relatively improve our
initial estimate of parameters by using
East at first and then m-step the East
step is to augment the data with
additional information magazine and the
M step is to take advantage of the
additional information to separate the
data to split the data comes and then
collect the right data comes to restate
our parameters and then once we have a
new generation of premise we're going to
repeat this we're going to use the e
step again to improve our estimate of
the hidden variables and then that would
lead to another generation of relays
Maitre parameters for the word
distribution that we are interested in
okay so as I said that the bridge
between the two is really the variable Z
hidden variable which indicates how
likely this word is from the topped word
distribution theta sub T so this slide
has a lot of content and you may need to
pause the video to digest it but this
basically captured the essence of
EML Whisman start with initial values
that are often randomly set and then we
invoke in step followed by M step to get
an improved setting of parameters and
then we'll repeat this so this is a hill
climbing algorithm that would gradually
improve the estimate of parameters and
as I will explain later
there's some guarantee for reaching a
local maximum of the likelihood function
so let's take a look at the computation
for a specific case so these formulas
are the e/m formulas that you see before
and you can also see there are super
scripts here like here n to indicate the
generating of parameters I go here for
example we have n plus 1 that means we
have improved practice so from here to
here we have improvement so in this
setting we are assuming that the two
models have equal probabilities and the
background model is known so what are
the relevant statistics well these are
the word counts so assume we have just
four words and there comes our like this
and this is our background in the model
that assigns high probabilities to
common words magan's up and in the first
iteration and you can picture what would
happen well we first we initialize all
the values so here this probability that
we're interested in is normalized into
an
uniform distribution over all the words
and then the east stepper would give us
a guess of the distribution that has
been used that will generate each word
we can see we have different
probabilities for different words why
well that's because these words they
have different abilities in the
background so even though the two
distributions are equally likely and
then our initial addition says uniform
distribution because of the difference
in the background water distribution we
have different guests the probabilities
so these words are believed to be more
likely from the topic I on the other
hand are less likely probably from
background so once we have these z
values we know in the end step these
probabilities would be used to adjust
the counts
so four must be multiplied by this point
of three three in order to get the
allocated accounts toward the topic and
this is done by this multiplication
note that if our gas says this is 100%
if this is 1.0 then we just get the full
council this word for this topic but in
general as I said it's not only 1.0 so
we're gonna just get some percentage of
the counts toward this topic and then we
simply normalize these counts to have a
new generation of parameter estimate so
you can see compare this with the old
one which is here I so compare this with
this one and we'll see the probability
that was different not only that we also
see some words that are believed to have
come from the topical we have a high
probability like this one tax and of
course this new generation of families
would allow the grow further adjust the
in further when letting the variable or
hidden variable values so we have a new
generation of values because of the
estep based on the new
analyzing of parameters and this this
new in further values of these were give
us than another generation of the
estimate of probabilities of the world
and and so on so forth so this is what
would actually happen when we computed
these probabilities using the e/m
algorithm and as you can see in the last
rule where we showed the blog light code
and the light holder is increasing as we
do the iteration and note that these log
likelihood is negative because the
probability is between 0 & 1 when you
take logarithm it becomes a negative
value now what's also interesting is do
note last column and these are the in
further word split and these are the
probabilities that a word is believed to
have come from one distribution in this
case the topical distribution right and
you might wonder whether this would be
also useful because our main goal is to
estimate these word distribution right
so this is our primary goal we hope to
have a more discriminating or
distribution but the last column is also
by product and this actually can also be
very useful and you can think about that
and one use is true for example is
related to what extent that this
document has covered background words
and this when we add this up or take the
average who will kind of know to what
extent it has covered background versus
content words that are not explained
well by the background